.TH MOONPI 1 "2026" "MoonPi" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
moonpi \- interactive Moonlight game streaming launcher for Raspberry Pi
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B moonpi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B moonpi
is an interactive TUI launcher for Moonlight game streaming on Raspberry Pi OS.
It reads a configuration file, displays a menu on the active terminal, and
invokes
.B moonpi-safe
to manage the stream session.
.PP
MoonPi is designed to run automatically on tty2 at boot via systemd, presenting
a plug-and-play streaming experience without a desktop environment.
.SH MENU OPTIONS
.TP
.B 1) Launch MoonPi
Start a Moonlight stream to the configured host using the saved settings.
Streams are handed off to
.BR moonpi-safe (1)
which handles clean shutdown on exit.
.TP
.B 2) Configure MoonPi
Enter the interactive configurator to set the host IP, app name, resolution,
FPS, bitrate, and local audio. Settings are saved to the user config file
(or the system config file if running as root).
.TP
.B 3) Pair Moonlight
Pair Moonlight with a Sunshine or NVIDIA GameStream host by IP address.
.TP
.B 4) Exit to Console
Switch back to tty1 (the default console).
.TP
.B 5) Launch Desktop
Switch to tty7 to return to the desktop environment. Only shown when a
compositor or X server (labwc, wayfire, weston, or Xorg) is detected as running.
.SH CONFIGURATION
MoonPi uses a two-layer config system. The system config is loaded first;
a user config, if present, overlays it.
.TP
.I /etc/moonpi/moonpi.conf
System-wide configuration. Writable by root.
.TP
.I $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/moonpi/moonpi.conf
Per-user configuration (defaults to
.IR ~/.config/moonpi/moonpi.conf ).
Written when configuring as a non-root user.
.SS Config Keys
.TP
.B HOST_IP
IP address of the Sunshine/GameStream host.
.TP
.B APP_NAME
Name of the app or desktop to stream (e.g.\&
.IR Desktop ).
.TP
.B FPS
Target frame rate passed to Moonlight (e.g.\&
.IR 60 ).
.TP
.B BITRATE
Stream bitrate in Kbps passed to Moonlight (e.g.\&
.IR 20000 ).
.TP
.B RESOLUTION_FLAG
Standard resolution shorthand:
.BR \-720 ,
.BR \-1080 ,
or
.BR \-4k .
Empty when a custom resolution is set.
.TP
.B CUSTOM_WIDTH , CUSTOM_HEIGHT
Custom stream resolution in pixels. Used when
.B RESOLUTION_FLAG
is empty.
.TP
.B LOCAL_AUDIO
Set to
.B yes
to enable audio output on the Pi in addition to the host.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B MOONPI_CONFIG_PATH
Override the system config path (default:
.IR /etc/moonpi/moonpi.conf ).
.TP
.B XDG_CONFIG_HOME
Override the base directory for the user config (default:
.IR ~/.config ).
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/moonpi/moonpi.conf
System configuration file.
.TP
.I /usr/lib/systemd/system/moonpi@.service
Systemd template unit. Instantiated as
.B moonpi@tty2.service
at boot.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR moonpi-safe (1),
.BR moonlight (1)
.SH AUTHOR
POONpirate <kellyzekilla@hotmail.com>
